TOP PRIORITY
clean up TODOS
unify the naming scheme in ui for rotation vs degrees
reduce code duplication in snapping code
reduce code duplication in asset manager
settings menu? centralized settings loader? csv? automated property setting ui? skybox picker? hint system disable?
add a setting for changing if camera uses scroll wheel to set speed or to scroll (same as lock-on mode except it uses a raycast to determine distance and scroll amount. if raycast hits nothing, use a default scroll distance.)
add BETTER hint system than manual (gmod droplet noise with timer progressbar)
add better user feedback for part, color and material selector (selected shape, color or material are shown above the dropdown instead of just message bar)
add selectionbox around abb
use better shader/improve existing shader
implement correct colliders for non-cuboid shapes
implement subassemblies and/or grouping of parts
implement import/export (.obj, .gltf, .tres/.res)
implement roblox resizealign and gapfill plugin


NORMAL PRIORITY
automated build system: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wZsAY_SdEb8
implement snapping for wedge face
implement configurable modes for filemanager
implement new folder button for filemanager
implement multiple filters at once for filemanager
implement asset import export (reference images, meshes)

PERFORMANCE
WorkspaceManager.selection_add_part() is also a bit slow
WorkspaceManager.selection_scale() is also very slow
could benefit from changing second parameter to a mere vector3

use meshdatatool and edit existing vertices instead of clearing and reconstructing them each time
selectionbox script is very slow, box_update() took 170.5ms for 192 calls on my machine
draw_frame() had 1152 calls for 130.97ms
draw_quad() had 9216 calls for 113.18ms
itd be best if i precomputed the vertex coordinates of the selection box and just moved them or scaled them
instead of regenerating them every time
itd also be better perhaps to group a number of selectionboxes into one node.
same with part meshes and part colliders.


export to godot project -> make sure all required materials are there -> find all instances of the previously exported meshes and replace them, recolor them the way they were colored before replacing



v0.2
procedural shapes: cylinders and torus with tweakable number of vertices
implement csg (first with godot csg, then my own) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Iqmg4gblreo&pp=ygUlY29uc3RydWN0aXZlIHNvbGlkIGdlb21ldHJ5IGdhbWUgdGFsaw%3D%3D
implement part properties inspector
implement part locking
recolor selection box to red if 2 selected parts are overlapping perfectly
implement multi part coloring and material application
implement automatic hidden face reduction algorithm
binary save files
implement uv mapping
(maybe?) refine selection system to work with normal godot assets because it would be fun to use this as a level editor
